hey it's sean mccabe with shawn west TV
when you land on a website you make an
immediate judgment yes you're noticing a
lot of things but what it really boils
down to is is this a giving page or is
this a taking page and we're quick to
recognize it we're tuned to recognizing
it almost immediately because it's all
in the language is this providing value
to me or is it taking something from me
websites with a pop-up immediately
asking for your email address are taking
pages they provide zero value to you yet
they're asking something of you and
we're sensitive to that we immediately
recognize that as a taking page we're
quick to tune out noise and were quick
to recognize spam Robert aldini and his
book influence talks about the Hari
Krishna technique of giving a flower to
passers-by and saying it was a gift once
the gift was accepted they would ask for
a donation this is the rule of
reciprocity in action reciprocity is
simply a form of the word reciprocate
which is to respond and like gesture do
for someone else as they have done for
you let me give you an example if you
buy someone a coffee the other person
feels like they owe you however what's
interesting here is they not only feel
like they owe you a coffee but this
sense of indebtedness actually
transcends the value of the original
gift that means people are so opposed to
feeling this sense of obligation or debt
to someone that they will go above and
beyond in reciprocating that favor just
to wipe any trace of indebtedness how
this can play out in reality is you buy
someone a coffee and rather than them
merely buying you a coffee in return
they will be inclined to buy you lunch
the next time the two of you go out this
same psychology applies to emails every
day I get emails from people asking me
for things asking Here I am giving I'm
giving with this video of giving with my
podcast I give with my newsletters all
centered around helping you you think
people would be giving back to me but I
get these taking emails people using up
my precious time to solicit something
from
and like I said earlier I can recognize
it in under one second because it's all
in the language here's what they contain
I want we want send me take my promote
my sign up for our and this is what I
hear me me me me me me me me me me oh
p.s me this brings me to a segment I
call reaching out to people you're doing
it wrong the biggest problem here is
these people are not providing value
before they're asking for something
that's not how this works you're not
going to reach anyone that matters this
way I get emails like this every single
day and they get ignored and even if
these people try to follow up with a
second email I'm gonna see what they
sent in the first one and I'm going to
ignore them ninety-nine percent chance
i'll ignore them even if they do
everything right in the second email you
only have that one chance to make a
first impression so let that first
impression be you offering to help you
providing value you giving and not just
taking if you mess this up the first
time you are automatically labeled as a
taker takers get ignored nobody likes
takers here's the worst one people
replying to my newsletter where i just
gave them value asking for something i
gave them something valuable and they
want to take more it doesn't work this
way this is working against the rule of
reciprocity i just gave them something
of value therefore the burden is on them
to give back to reciprocate that favor
not to take not to ask for more so i
want to give you my one step formula to
getting someone with influence to a
respond to you be maybe help you and see
possibly even promote your stuff and yes
i said one step formula here it is give
them something of value no strings
attached period the end nothing else
this is the only way you're even going
to get a chance at getting a response
from someone at getting help from
someone at getting someone to possibly
promote your stuff you can't just ask
you have to give to them first even then
that's just the cost of entry chances
are you still won't get help you still
won't get a response because they
probably deserve whatever it is that you
gave them because they've been providing
so much value to you that's why you
even heard about them in the first place
you have to build the relationship first
if you even want a fighting chance you
have to establish yourself as a giver
and not as a taker and the only way to
do that is to provide value or give
something with no strings attached do
not ask for something in the first email
I repeat do not ask for something in the
first email don't even ask for something
in your second email I don't even want
to see the words my or me in your entire
message you you you you how can I help
you do you need any help with X which is
my specialty hey i noticed this and I
did this for you hey thanks for all that
you do now I can tell a few of you out
there saying one step formula I need
something more okay step two is repeat
step 1 keep giving keep giving more you
have to get through your head or you're
going to be ignored because there's
millions out there that all they want to
do is take they want to take my time my
money my resources my attention my
advice my audience my exposure and my
endorsement and they are a dime a dozen
they're cheaper than a dime a dozen you
want to stand out be different that
means giving its relationship marketing
101 I've had people reach out to me and
say hey do you need help with X I'm your
guide that's my specialty I want to help
you that was it that was all they said
can I help you with this they provide a
value we ended up talking I provided
value a relationship was formed
eventually they interviewed me on their
show and I created a post where I
highlighted them specifically the entire
post was dedicated to them and I
promoted that to my audience I put them
in the spotlight and I've done this
numerous times now compare the objective
value they gave me advice for a few
minutes and i gave them exposure to tens
of thousands those aren't even close to
the same thing but that's the beauty of
the rule of reciprocity once i identify
you as a giver then I am now motivated
to out give you see you're so focused on
getting whatever you can that you
straight up ask for it without providing
value and in doing so you blow any
chance of getting
in return because you're immediately
labeled as a taker what you should be
doing is incentivizing someone's
inherent generosity giving incentivizes
giving and by giving to someone with no
strings attached they're now motivated
to out give you and not only does that
make you feel good but you make them
feel good forgiving and you get more
than you could have ever hoped for in
the first place no outtakes or even a
few years ago when are they going to get
done how are you ever going to complete
any side projects